Whole Journeys, formerly  A Whole Foods Market® Company logo
Founder and CEO
Whole Journeys, formerly  A Whole Foods Market® Company · Full-time
Mar 2012 - Present · 14 yrs 2 mos
Boulder, Colorado
Whole Journeys grew from our vision to connect travelers with the local flavors of the destinations they travel through and to incorporate the passion of local producers into the journey. 

Whole Journeys “Active Foodie” adventures explore the local landscapes by foot or bicycle, moving through historic villages, breathtaking countryside, and legendary pathways while focusing on the culture and traditions of food in the destination. 

Travelers are immersed in regional food activities include hands on cooking classes, biodynamic wine tastings, pecorino cheese making, truffle harvesting with local dogs to name just a few adventures. These experiences intertwine the traveler with local farmers, winemakers, artisans and chefs and provide a life changing understanding of the land, food and culture of a destination.

These intimate itineraries are built on the insights, experience, and relationships of local partners who share our passion. Together with these experts we carefully select properties, restaurants, and activities, which represent the true expression of each region, and the Whole Journeys traveler.

TASTE OF ARGENTINA: BUENOS AIRES AND THE WINE REGIONS OF MENDOZA AND SALTA
Sample of Active Foodie trip in Argentina
Thumbnail for Meet Whole Foods Market® passionate producers with Whole Journeys®
Meet Whole Foods Market® passionate producers with Whole Journeys®
Whole Journeys, The Whole Foods Market Travel Experience, takes guests around the world on small group tours. We meet local producers passionate about sustainable production and sharing their stories with us. We learn about food culture and tradition which embrace the history and future of each destination.
Thumbnail for Whole Journeys
Whole Journeys
Whole Journeys Video

Show all 4 media

TravelDragon, Inc. logo
Founder/CEO, Chief Curator
TravelDragon, Inc.
Dec 2007 - Present · 18 yrs 5 mos
Boulder, Colorado, United States
TravelDragon: your search engine for a world of unique travel experiences.

Travel Dragon's search engine offers a curated destination for travelers interested in small group, authentic, sustainable experiences worldwide. Search from 8000+ itineraries and unique properties offered by 1700+ of the best small/medium size travel providers focused on active/adventure, cultural, nature, learning, sustainable/green, volunteering, culinary, and family travel categories. 

Filter by price, comfort level, exertion level, group size and sustainable travel commitment. Research, compare, share and review trips, unique properties and providers. Transparently connect directly with travel providers.

White Label solutions for associations and partners.  Distribution feeds available.
Thumbnail for TravelDragon: Compare unique tours, trips & vacations from the world's best adventure travel operators.
TravelDragon: Compare unique tours, trips & vacations from the world's best adventure travel operators.
TravelDragon searches world-wide trips, tours, and vacations from boutique, specialized, and local travel providers. Featuring exceptional tours not easily found by providers with proven expertise in world-class tours for discriminating travelers.

World Bank Group logo
Consultant: Tourism and Agriculture Linkages and Assessment
World Bank Group · Contract
Mar 2018 - Sep 2018 · 7 mos
Tajikistan
Senior Constant with two World Bank teams on the ground (in Tajikistan-2018 as well as in St. Lucia and Grenada-2016). Reviewing current tourism and agricultural products for potential scale and distribution for food tourism internationally. Followed up with research and assessment of best practices and practical strategies to execute.

Lindblad Expeditions logo
Activities Concierge, National Geographic Orion
Lindblad Expeditions · Contract
May 2016 - Oct 2017 · 1 yr 6 mos
Europe, British Isles, Scandinavia, Baltics, Russia
Worked for 2 months over two years supporting the expedition as the expert and specialist for independent and active exploration in Europe, British Isles Scandinavia, the Baltics. Managed a fleet of on-ship bicycles. Develops independent off-ship biking, walking, hiking, food & wine and specialty  experiences for guests.  Created and execute presentations on traditional foods of the region.
Thumbnail for National Geographic Orion 
National Geographic Orion 
Hiking off of Fishguard,  Wales

This is Europe 2.0
Fall in love with Europe all over again, or for the first time, on one- or two-week voyages aboard the 102-guest National Geographic Orion, the most intimate luxury ship in Europe. Marvelous itineraries, unique and exclusive opportunities, plus our onboard concierge ensure you a truly customized, memorable European experience.


Founder/Owner
The Dragon's Path (now dba Whole Journeys)
Oct 1998 - May 2016 · 17 yrs 8 mos
Boulder, Colorado
Worldwide Cultural Walking and Hiking Tours

Dragon Dev / Dragon Consulting Inc logo
International Travel Consultant
Dragon Dev / Dragon Consulting Inc · Contract
Aug 1998 - Jul 2015 · 17 yrs
Boulder, Colorado
Through DragonDev (formerly Dragon Consulting) Kathy offered strategic consulting within the Travel Industry including brand strategy development, international tour operator representation, professional speaking and ideation.  Through Dragon Consulting Kathy served as a Subject Matter Expert for Eons.com, a major Boomer Social Media start up.    

Consumer Expertise: Boomers, Mature Market and Active Women. 
Category Expertise: Travel: Adventure/Specialty/Experiential/Sustainable; The Outdoor Retail and Natural Foods industries.
Speaking: World Food Tourism Summit, World Wine Tourism Congress, Adventure Travel Trade Summit, DEMA Dive Marketing Summit, NSAA National Ski Areas Association Summit, Good and Green, Marketing to Women, AARP JWT Conference, Travel Society, Pacific Asia Adventure Sustainable Tourism Summit, Mekong Tourism Summit and others

EONS.com logo
Consultant: Boomer Travel Product Section Creator
EONS.com
Oct 2006 - Oct 2007 · 1 yr 1 mo
Eons™ is a 50+ media company inspiring a generation of boomers and seniors to live the biggest life possible. Founded by Jeff Taylor, founder of Monster.com, Eons was launched in July 2006.

Travel areas offers 2500 + high quality tours provided by 140 of the top tour operators in the world.  Search by destination, activity, interest or inspirational category. Http://travel.eons.com


owner
ActiveWomen.com
2004 - 2007 · 3 yrs

Whole Foods Market logo
Marketing Director
Whole Foods Market
Oct 2005 - Oct 2006 · 1 yr 1 mo


VP: Business Unit Director Whole Journeys
WholePeople.com A Whole Foods Market company
Oct 1999 - Dec 2000 · 1 yr 3 mos
Responsible for Business Plan and Vision for Whole Journeys, one of 5 core business units supporting 500 employees. Reported directly to John Mackey, founder/CEO of Whole Foods Market
Executive Team Member: responsible for vision and development of WholePeople.com
Hired and directly managed staff of 6.Direct responsibilities for all aspects of Whole Journeys business including tour selection and brochure development and direct marketing campaign, web site presence within vertical portal,set up of policies and procedures including budgets, staffing, operations, marketing etc.Developed partnership relations. Co-created co-branded store front with Altrec (site selling
travel clothing and gear), as well as spearheaded discussions with number of other business regarding partnership potential.

Country Walkers logo
Marketing & Tour Development
Country Walkers
Nov 1994 - Nov 1998 · 4 yrs 1 mo
Worked with founders to grow company from 300-3000+ guests during my tenure. Researched and designed over 70% of worldwide walking vacations. Personally trained local guides & escorted trips in over 30 countries.  

Involved in all aspects of marketing company and growing the company including first website, press releases, trade shows, travel agent training, hosted gatherings, catalog design and photography.