Terms and Conditions

 
Terms and Conditions & Release of Liability & Assumption of All Risks Agreement
Reservations
Early reservations are recommended, since rooms at the unique properties we use are not confirmed until payment is made for private tours. For schedule trips, group sizes are limited. To reserve your trip, we require a per person deposit as outlined below, which can be made by Zelle (bank transfer) check, wire, or credit card. Credit Card, fees will be incurred by customer.
**The balance of your payment is due by check (to Whole Journeys), zelle or wire transfer 95 days prior to departure. Should you prefer to pay by P Credit Card, Credit Card, fees will be incurred by customer. Payments must be in USD.
 
The Trip Application Form and signed Release of Liability and Assumption of All Risks 
Each participant must submit a separate signed application prior to departure. We must receive your signed reservation form, and deposit to confirm your reservation. Upon receiving your deposit we will send you a confirmation letter, detailed trip itinerary, and as well as information regarding travel insurance and arrival/departure information. Upon receipt of your final payment additional information including clothing and equipment list and general information needed to prepare for your trip will be shared. Rendezvous instructions and final hotel and contact list will be sent approximately 2 weeks weeks prior to departure. Please note – when your reservation is initiated within 30 days of departure a non-refundable rush booking fee of $100 per booking will be charged.
 
Trip Planning Fee: for independent planning of trips a $600 non-refundable fee will be charged after a complimentary initial meeting. This fee is waived for group trips and may be waived in some circumstances 
 
Deposit Schedule*
• At time of reservation:
*For Scheduled Group Departure: $600 deposit per person, plus 50% of extensions/additional hotels or excursions unless noted 
*For Private Tours: $1000 deposit per person (unless otherwise noted) plus any deposits (refundable or non) /payments required by villas/boats etc. 
*For private proposal, 50% of quoted rate may be requested upon agreement of itinerary to confirm hotels and guides.
* Payment schedules for cruises, private departures, extensions, and certain Special Events vary. These exceptions are clearly communicated and indicated on invoices.
Pricing
Prices are generally quoted in local currency with US dollars conversion against current rat which may be updated at time of final payment. All payments must be made in US dollars. To secure the rate quoted All land payments submitted less than 15 days prior to departure must be by cashier’s check.
Prices quoted for most tours include: all accommodations as listed based on double occupancy; most meals; transfers and transportation from the meeting location to the drop off location; admissions fees to itinerary sites and museums; services of leader/guide throughout the tour; hotel taxes and service charges; handling of one reasonable size suitcase and one carry-on per person; gratuities except as listed below.
Not included in quoted tour price are: air or train fares (unless part of the tour itinerary); gratuities for additional baggage assistance or alcoholic beverages; personal travel insurance; gratuities to driver, leader/guide, or boat-crew/trekking – crew members; cost of obtaining passports; visas (unless listed in confirmation packet as included); immunizations; arrival/departure airport or country taxes; meals not included in itinerary; items of personal nature; emergency evacuation.
Arrangements
Prices listed on the website or quote are subject to change since the trip dates and prices are often published more than a year in advance. Between that time and the time of the trip’s actual departure, we are occasionally faced with exceptional cost increases or currency fluctuations that we cannot absorb. We do everything we can to keep our prices the same as published. 
Prices include planning, handling and operational charges are quoted on the current rate of exchange and tariffs as of January 2025. In the event of a marked increase in foreign exchange or tariff rates, costs are subject to change. The final invoice may differ than initial based on current exchange rates.
Tour costs are based on group rates and no refunds will be given for un-utilized services for any reason whatsoever.
Single Supplement
Accommodations are based on double occupancy. A single supplement is paid by participants who specifically request single accommodations, subject to availability. If you are traveling alone and wish to share accommodations, we will try to match you with a roommate. However, if a roommate is not available, a single supplement charge will be added.
 
Cancellations & Refunds
If it becomes necessary for you to cancel your trip, the following fees will apply, computed as of the date of receipt of written cancellation notice, which can be sent by email or expedited mail and verified.
The cancellation policies outlined below take into consideration the costs Whole Journeys incurs long before travelers ever depart. Whole Journeys strictly adheres to the following cancellation policies. Trip price is defined as everything purchased from Whole Journeys as part of your tour, including upgrades and Single Supplement.
To avoid cancellation and trip change costs, please consider adding Travel Protection to your booking.
Cancellation Fee Schedule
If you must cancel, the rates are per person as follows and notes the Non-Refundable Fees Due to Whole Journeys
CANCELLATION POLICY
Days Prior 91+ Days: $600 or 100% Travel Credit* 
90 – 66 Days: 25% of Trip Price 
65 – 31 Days: 50% of Trip Price 
30 – 0 Days: 100% 
*When canceling outside of 90 days, guests may opt to keep the full deposit as a Travel Credit to use within one calendar year of the original departure date.
Credit is not valid towards non-refundable fees (hotels deposits etc) Alternate Routes Inc (Whole Journeys) 
 
PRIVATE AND CUSTOM TOUR CANCELLATION POLICY
Days Prior 91+ Days: $1000 per person ( + any non-refundable charges/deposits) 
90 – 66 Days: 50% of Trip Price
65 – 31 Days: 75% of Trip Price 
30 – 0 Days: 100% of Trip Price
Note: Private tours may be subject to different terms and conditions as outlined in the final tour proposal. Private Departures include private/custom trips, boat-based trips, and special event trips
*Special Departures Special departures . 
Cruises, private departures, extensions, and certain Special Events are often more strict. These exceptions are clearly indicated in the detailed itineraries printed separately for each of these trips. Rates are based on group participation and no partial refunds will be given for unused trip arrangements for any reason whatsoever. If specific rooms/excursions etc have been booked that are non-refundable these fees will be in addition to the cancellation fees outline. If non-refundable accommodations or excursions deposits have been booked with the guests knowledge (verbally or in writing) these non-refundable fees will be on top of the cancelation fees. We recommend travel insurance upon booking.
 
Travel Credits
All Travel Credits are non-transferable and non-refundable. Travel Credits cannot be used towards payment of a deposit. Travel Credits must be used within one calendar year of the original departure date or will be forfeited. Once a Travel Credit has been applied to a trip, it is considered non-refundable. Special rules apply for COVID-related Travel Credits. Please contact our office for details.
Credit is not valid towards non-refundable fees (hotels deposits etc)
 
Cancelled Trips
Whole Journeys reserves the right to cancel any trip prior to departure for any reason whatsoever, including insufficient signup or logistical problems that may impede trip operations. The refund of all tour payments received shall release Whole Journeys from any further liability. Whole Journeys must normally make substantial payments to its suppliers (hotels, transportation companies, etc.) far in advance of the scheduled embarkation date. If a trip is cancelled due to force majeure, acts of nature, war, labor strikes, earthquake, flooding, etc., Whole Journeys will promptly refund the portion of the trip cost not already advanced to suppliers and use its best efforts to recover and refund the balance as promptly as possible. However, Whole Journeys does not guarantee recovery of any or all of the advance payments made, and the use of best efforts to recover these payments will not include the institution of legal proceedings in foreign jurisdictions. Whole Journeys is not responsible for expenses incurred by trip members in preparing for a cancelled trip (eg. nonrefundable advance purchase air tickets, visa fees, inoculations, equipment, etc.) or for any additional arrangements should the trip member have embarked prior to the scheduled group departure date.
 
Guest Responsibility for Your Trip (for group tours)
Trip members have the responsibility to select a trip appropriate to their abilities and interests. Whole Journeys rates each trip with a Trip Level. Trip members are held responsible for being in sufficient good health to undertake the trip. Trip members are responsible for preparing for the trip by studying the itinerary and pre-departure information packets sent by Whole Journeys and for bringing the appropriate clothing and equipment as advised therein. It is expected of each trip member to act in accordance and with respect to the local custom, cultures and laws of the regions visited. The Leader-Guide has the right to disqualify anyone at any time during the trip if he or she feels the trip member is physically or mentally incapable or if a trip member’s continued participation will jeopardize the individual involved or the group. Refunds are not given under any circumstances. Whole Journeys reserves the right to accept, retain or decline any tour member at any time for any reason. Once you have been confirmed on a trip that requires a medical certificate signed by a doctor, normal cancellation fees apply if your doctor does not sign the certificate. It is vital that persons with medical problems make them known to us well before trip departure.
Privacy Policy and Photographic Release
Whole Journeys respects and values your privacy. We will never sell your address or private information. Whole Journeys reserves the right to take photographic or film records of any of its trips. Trip members should be aware that Whole Journeys may use any such photographic or film records for promotional and/or commercial purposes, or joint marketing efforts with third parties, without remuneration to the trip member.
Alternate Routes Inc dba Whole Journeys, its employees, affiliates, officers, directors and successors, (collectively ‘Whole Journeys”) does not own or operate any entity that provides, or is to provide, goods or services for your trip including, for example, lodging facilities, yacht and other transportation companies, food service providers, equipment suppliers, local ground handlers, naturalist and certain guides, etc. As a result, Whole Journeys is not liable for any negligent or willful act or failure to act of any such person, or of any other third party.
Whole Journeys is not liable for any direct, indirect, consequential, or incidental damage, injury, death, loss, accident, delay, inconvenience or irregularity of any kind that may be occasioned by reason of any act or omission beyond its control, including without limitation any willful or negligent act, failure to act, breach of contract or violation of local law or regulation of any third party such as an airline, train, hotel, bus, taxi, van, yacht or vessel, local ground handler or guide, whether or not it uses the Whole Journeys name, financial default or insolvency of any supplier that is, to, or does supply any goods or services for this trip. Similarly, Whole Journeys is not responsible for any loss, injury, death or inconvenience due to delay or change in schedule, overbooking of accommodation, default of any third party, attacks by wild or domestic animals, epidemics or the threat thereof, sickness, the lack of appropriate medical care, evacuation to same, if necessary, weather, strikes, acts of Nature or government, lost or misplaced luggage, acts of terrorism or the threat thereof, force majeure, war, quarantine, criminal activity, or any other cause beyond its control.
I am voluntarily participating in this trip (or any trip to which I may subsequently transfer) with the knowledge of the numerous risks and dangers involved including but not limited to negligence on the part of Whole Journeys (for example, negligence in the conduct or arrangement of the trip in any respect from inception to completion, negligence with regard to selection of suppliers, locations and otherwise). I acknowledge that the enjoyment and excitement of adventure travel, such as this trip, is derived in part from the inherent risks incurred by travel and activity beyond the accepted safety of life at home or work and that these inherent risks contribute to such enjoyment and excitement, and are a reason for my participation. I hereby agree to be responsible for my own welfare and accept any and all risks of delay, unanticipated events, inconvenience, illness, injury, emotional trauma or death.
Whole Journeys reserves the right to refuse as a trip participant, or remove, at his or her own expense and without any refund, from a trip, any person it judges to be incapable of meeting the rigors and requirements of participating in the activities, or who it determines detracts from the enjoyment of the trip by others. I agree to follow all written and verbal rules of safety or otherwise presented to me by Whole Journeys or the trip leaders. Whole Journeys reserves the right to make route, hotel, itinerary, leader changes and trip modifications as required or desirable to improve the trip quality and/or to accommodate the comfort and well-being of guests.
BINDING ARBITRATION Any dispute concerning, relating, or referring to this contract, brochures, web information, or any other literature concerning my trip, or the trip itself, shall be subject to the laws of the State of Colorado. Neither party will commence or prosecute any action, suit, proceeding or claim arising out of or related to this Agreement other than in the state courts located in Boulder, Colorado USA. Each party hereby irrevocably consents to the jurisdiction and venue of such courts in connection with any such action, suit, proceeding or claim. In any suit, arbitration, mediation or other action to enforce any right or remedy under this Agreement or to interpret any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party will be entitled to recover its costs, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, including without limitation, costs and fees incurred on appeal or in a bankruptcy or similar action.
MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS Whole Journeys shall not be liable for (a) expenses such as additional hotel nights and meals not specified in the individual trip itineraries, but which may be required to get to or from a trip start or end; (b) expenses due to the delay of a trip for any reason (e.g., bad weather, trail conditions, land slides, flooding, sickness, etc.); (c) expenses incurred in recovering luggage lost by airlines, belongings left behind on a trip, or in shipping purchases or other goods home from abroad.
KNOWING AND VOLUNTARY EXECUTION I understand this is a legally binding and enforceable contract and sign it of my own free will. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect. I have carefully read and fully understand the contents and legal ramifications of this agreement as well as all the conditions as stated under the heading “General Information” of the current Whole Journeys website, especially noting those regarding cancellation and refund policies, limitations of liability, and responsibility borne by trip participants.
This release of liability is entered into on behalf of all members of my family, including all minors accompanying me. I certify that I am the parent or guardian of any such minors.This release of liability is entered into on behalf of all members of my family, including all minors accompanying me. I certify that I am the parent or guardian of any such minors.
 
 